>> The search for
extraterrestrial life may come
down to finding
biosignatures in space.
The James Webb Space Telescope
is poised to do just that.
And NASA's Artemis
1 Moon mission
is about to take the next
step to put humans back
on the lunar surface.
This is a Gaia News breakdown.
As we have previously
reported, one
of the tools
scientists are using
to detect life on
other planets is
the existence of biosignatures.
A biosignature, put simply,
is a biological sign of life.
On Earth, our biosignatures
are gases like methane, oxygen,
and some carbon dioxide.
Now, a new study out of the
University of California Santa
Cruz says methane could be the
first detectable sign of life
on an exoplanet.
And the researchers
outline how to determine
if it is a sign of life or not.
As Maggie Thompson, lead
author of the study, said,
"on Earth, the vast majority of
methane is produced by life."
So it stands to reason that
in certain instances, that
would be true on other planets.
This is of particular importance
now as the James Webb Space
Telescope is preparing to
take its first readings
of exoplanets atmospheres.
And the telescope has on board
one of the most sophisticated
instruments to date and
can easily detect methane.
Thompson argues, "oxygen is
often talked about as one
of the best biosignatures,
but it's probably
going to be hard to detect
with the James Webb Space
Telescope."
The researchers made a
three-part case for methane
as the best possible
biosignature.
First, it would be unsurprising
for life on another planet
to produce methane.
Second, methane would not
last for long on a planet
without constant replenishment.
And third, it would
be easy to tell
if the gas was being produced
by a non-biological source
like a volcano.
Also, as Space.com reports,
upon the discovery of methane,
it has a better chance
of being a biosignature
if atmospheric carbon dioxide is
present, if the atmosphere has
more methane than
carbon monoxide,
and if the planet
is not water rich.
Following these
guidelines, the researchers
argue should prevent
false positives.
The James Webb
Space Telescope is
scheduled to send back results
to Earth later this year.
NASA's preparing to put
astronauts back on the Moon.
This week, NASA rolled
out the Artemis 1 rocket
for a series of tests for the
wet dress rehearsal, where
the rocket and team will go
through most of their launch
day procedures,
including fueling,
hence the name wet
dress rehearsal.
This is part of the first NASA
mission to the Moon since 1972,
and is just the
beginning of the plan
to put human bases on the
Moon, with the ultimate goal
of reaching Mars.
Most of the dress rehearsal
will be live streamed by NASA
but some information
will be classified.
The unmanned Artemis
1 is expected
to launch sometime
this summer depending
on how the dress rehearsals
go for roughly one month
mission around the Moon.
NASA plans to send astronauts
around the Moon in 2024
and putting astronauts on
the lunar surface by 2025.
And this ambitious plan hopes
to put the first humans on Mars
by the year 2040.
For a new perspective, this
is a Gaia News breakdown.